hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery here back
again with part two of this soon-to-be
long-winded series introducing the
history of tea on behalf of everyone
here at the China history podcast
welcome back last episode we look back
on teas most ancient origins in Chinese
history no one knows for sure who that
verse Charen was who lived with the tea
trees grew indigenously between the
Brahmaputra Valley in the West and
Sichuan province in the east who was
that tea person who first discovered the
delights yielded by these leaves and
became its first apostle
let me quote William euchre's who put it
so nicely quote the Chinese learned the
use of the tea drink of the Aboriginal
tribesman of the hill districts
bordering on southwestern China these
tribes men occasionally prepared a
beverage by boiling raw green leaves of
wild tea trees in kettles over smoky
outdoor fires this was the earliest
crude beginning of what the Chinese and
Japanese later developed into a socio
religious right of exquisite refinement
unquote until we know better
Chun Doong is standing in for that
person but at least from the beginnings
of recorded history the Shang Dynasty we
know at least that tea was already
around it was bitter it wasn't called
cha its value was primarily as a
medicine
if anyone drank it for pleasure they
sure hadn't popularized it yet that was
all to come it was learned that steaming
the leaves first before pounding them
into cakes of tea not only improved
storage technology but also made the tea
a little less bitter the old method of
drying the leaves involved charring them
which left a bitter aftertaste in one's
mouth it took a long time to figure out
even the crudest ways to work the
freshly plucked leaves but figure it out
they did a nest he began to lose some of
its bitterness one began to see the
possibilities of tea as a beverage from
several previous CHP episodes we know so
much of the tang dynasty was rooted in
the achievements of the father-son
name of suede Wendy and sway young D T's
transition from medicine to beverage
began during the suede dynasty of these
two Emperor's a common way to drink tea
back then was still to add stuff to it
adding spices fruits plum juice or
ginger to the tea was one way to cut
into the bitterness or at least distract
you from it by the 7th century the
process of making tea had reached a
point where not only did it win
acceptance from the local people it was
also a massive hit with all the peoples
who encircled China from Tibet Central
Asia to Mongolia now with a healthy
demands being ramped up she started to
become a very big business for some this
naturally put demands on quality
packaging transport and product
differentiation to facilitate this a
transport system needed to be created
and we all know few Emperor's from
Chinese history did more for
transportation than those to slay
Dynasty Emperor's Wendy and young D
remember CHP 111 on the Wu state King
foo chai of wool built the Hun canal the
Han coat which connected the high and
young Zhu rivers quite a feat in its day
5th century BCE and when Emperor Jung of
sway quite a character
expanded foutch eyes Han canal into the
Grand Canal stretching from Beijing to
Hangzhou this opened up the floodgates
for domestic trade and commerce in China
and because the Grand Canal was an
eastern China technological and
transportation marvel the whole center
of gravity for the tea trade shifted
slowly eastward the tea forests of South
West China started to become less
important their role became more about
satiating the markets of the border
regions like Tibet and Central Asia
since tea for these people was more of a
beverage and something to wax eloquent
over with one's highbrow friends their
demands on quality didn't do much to
spur innovation it would be in the
Eastern
Fujin judge young and on way where
things were brought to a high art after
the Jin dynasty fell many of these
northern aristocrats migrated southward
and settled down in all the choicest
areas of Jiangsu at judge young it was
only natural that these places will
become so prominent and would so
wholeheartedly embrace tea and no
offense to northern China I loved it in
the spring and fall but the south of
China south of the Yangtze River that's
where all the gorgeous landscape
painting worthy places were located it's
no wonder that during this age landscape
painting as we know it today was born
Jung soo-jung parts of on Quay and
Fujian those places were simply too
intoxicating to the elites artists and
scholars of the day and it turned out
there were lots of shaded hilly places
in the east of China with excellent soil
drainage and the right temperatures and
climate so although they continued to
grow and produce tea and Sichuan guacho
and you none to this very day later on
it will be the tea's coming out of the
eastern provinces that would shake the
world and give pleasures and inspiration
who knows how many tea connoisseurs for
the first 2000 years we really had to
glean through the historical record to
understand basic things about tea now in
the Tong dynasty so many things will
happen so quickly
especially after tongue-tied zone
pacified the western borders and brought
the Silk Road to great heights never
seen before and the Tang Dynasty tea is
going to finally begin to go down market
rather than remain a drink for the haves
it will now be easily accessible to the
have-nots and though tea had always been
treated and handled like a commodity now
it starts to become much fancier and
refined stuff and this required all
kinds of tea ware tools and utensils
designed specifically for tea tea became
more refined and fancy in the Tong it
had been adopted both by buddhists and
scholars and
served as a muse and a medium to further
enjoy la dolce vita in chinese history
tong poet sir particularly revered and
remembered for the great heights they
brought their craft many great poems
were dedicated to tea we'll look at one
later the reputation of tea became
well-known in the regions bordering tong
China Tibet Ching hai and Xin Jiang
these people couldn't live without it
not only was it a beverage that was
essential to their daily happiness and
enjoyment it was even more essential for
the health benefits it conveyed to
people who lived in places so
inhospitable growing enough vegetables
to sustain a community was out of the
question the demands beyond China's
borders was quite great to facilitate
the transport of tea to the roof of the
world and up to the northwest of China
into Xin Jiang and Mongolia routes were
created where caravans of men and horses
traversed west and north bringing mostly
Chinese tea to the daily lives of the
Himalayan people these routes became
known as the Chamaco dal the ancient tea
horse rode and during the tongue tea
would henceforth be called cha something
this special needed to be rebranded with
its own character as I mentioned last
episode the Chinese character for cha
was the same as the character too but
with a single horizontal stroke removed
the perfection of this character was
obvious to eat'em ologists the top
portion of the character cha is a grass
radical then there's a Ren a person in
the middle and a tree below three
elements a person in between grass and a
tree the harmony between humans and
nature represented in the character cha
along with the Buddhism that spread
regionally during the sway and tong came
tea a Chinese tea culture the people of
Korea and Japan studied everything that
Chinese tea and tea culture had to offer
then each of those two special places
did that thing that each did to make it
unique to their own
culture this was the time when he came
to Korea and Japan in the last episode
tribute tease or Gong cha were mentioned
these were teased considered special and
extraordinary in their uniqueness and
flavor in the finest tasting leaves and
buds of the most prized teas the cream
of the harvest the earliest buds plucked
before the Ching Ming festival and early
April these were reserved solely for the
Emperor
everything that was harvested after that
was for everyone else the number of
tribute teas and the tongue grew and
some of them are still around today
let's look at how tea makers in the Tong
dynasty made their tea they picked their
tea leaves early in the morning
preferably when the dew was still moist
on the leaf the leaves would be boiled
in a pot to prevent oxidation and to
preserve the green color but at the same
time get rid of the grassy smell the
boiled leaves would be putting a kind of
a mortar and they'd be ground down to
break them down a bit and force the tea
SAP to be released to the surface then
the tea was put in any number of molds
and was patted down to get it into a
certain shape after it was molded they
would just pop it in the oven to seal in
the freshness this is how they made
those tea bricks and these bricks were
very convenient to transport no matter
to the lower reaches of the yangtze
river or over the mountains to Tibet if
the tea was going to Tibet Ching hai Xin
Jiang or Mongolia it was known as bian
cha or border tea tea that was sold to
the border regions the quality standards
were as I just said much lower than what
was demanded inside China let's talk
more about why he was so critical to
these Tibetan young and other minority
peoples China as I said the
mountains of the Himalayas wasn't a good
climate plant gardens or engage in
agriculture the Tibetan diet had always
been reliant mostly on meat the accent
goats this mostly meat diet had always
exposed them to any number of health
problems related to nutrition you
wouldn't expect that a beverage like tea
is
filled with so many nutrients drinking
it like they did with butter salt and
sometimes other additives was like pop
and vitamins tea has vitamin C D K and E
it has fluoride manganese potassium
chromium calcium magnesium iron copper
zinc potassium and other nutrients the
mineral content has a lot to do with the
water you're using too and there's more
fluoride in your tea than in the water
supply piped into your residence
there's also carotene b1 b2 b6 folic
acid she doesn't have everything it
doesn't contain though a hundred percent
of the minimum daily requirements but in
the case of the Tibetans and these other
border people's five to six cups of tea
a day gave them about seventy five
percent of what was required it was many
times better than nothing I'm sure
everyone is seen or heard of these
medical studies that claim tea prevents
cancer heart disease diabetes there are
weight loss teas touted all over the
place the claims are made on TV in the
markets magazines and in the health food
world the world of the bow champeen some
teas are said to help lower cholesterol
some aid in digestion I don't want to
get too deep into this aspect of tea but
I'm sure many of you are aware that this
market segment exists I guess the most
important aspect of tea that is always
pointed to is the most important health
benefit concerns flavonoids these
antioxidants are said to be particularly
helpful in fighting cancer heart disease
Alzheimer's and clogged arteries by
attacking what's known as free radicals
inside your body that might trigger a
cancer problem free radicals are also
known to cause aging and heart disease
as well of the six classes of tea green
yellow white black ulong and poo are
each one has their own particular merits
as far as what studies have found the
different teas have different polyphenol
counts the polyphenols are the
antioxidants they
neutralize free radicals and whose
amazing merits are splashed all over
these health drink labels and fruit
drinks if you can't keep all the
marketing straight tea or white and
green tea in particular are praised as
antioxidants there are studies that
claim green tea lowers total cholesterol
and raises HDL cholesterol aka the good
one others swear by green tea is
preventative against bladder breast
ovarian colorectal esophageal lung
pancreatic prostate skin and stomach
cancers and also as an aid in preventing
Crohn's disease and diabetes as I said
the antioxidants and tea are called
polyphenols or natural phenols the
polyphenols and tea are classified as
catechins
you'll see these words and all kinds of
ads and packaging and everything from
tea leaves tea extracts and other
dietary supplements green tea contains
six primary catagen compounds called
EGCG EGCG is the most studied of the
polyphenols white tea has the highest
level of antioxidants and an amino acid
discover in 1949 called ta9 a lot of
people take ta9 supplements to prevent
diseases like Alzheimer's and
hypertension in short tea is healthy for
you but arguments abound about how to
reliably and accurately measure the
health benefits anyway back to the
history once this great market was built
in tibet transport links had to be
established this was easier said than
done because once you start heading due
west from chengdu towards tibet it
doesn't take long before you hit the
himalayas back in the days of jeong chin
in the earliest years of the Silk Road
and the Han Dynasty it took a bit of
time to figure out the right mountain
passes to traverse and where to cross
certain rivers and how to safely get
from point A to point B for the ancient
tea horse route the same held true it
took some time before these traders and
Caravan leaders
got it down to a system it was a
treacherous journey across the most
rugged terrain in all of China 5000
meter mountain passes valleys and gorges
some rivers were impassable and required
cables to be run from side to side and
all people cargo and animals too had to
be zipped lined across part of these
Caravan routes through the mountains
were called the cool uni Alger loop the
road of mice and birds
this meant the paths along the mountain
sides were so narrow going through these
gorges that there was only room enough
for a mouse or a bird to walk safely
this whole border trade industry was
promoted by the government China had tea
and the Tibetans and other border people
and horses the Tang government couldn't
get enough horses and their stables
tongue-tied zone had really pushed the
limits of the Empire out as far as they
had ever been in order to patrol an
empire this big you needed a lot of
horses west of China they had an ample
supply and were only too anxious to
trade them for tea the government
started building their own tea
plantations especially around Sichuan
they got in the business too as the
story goes it was in the year 641 that
tea first came calling on the high
altitude world of the Tibetans this is
the story of princess wen Zhang wen Qing
Gong Julie
she was tongue-tied zones nice and 6:41
our uncle the Emperor married her off to
the Tibetan King songs tan gampo songs
and GaN bull this was done in the
interests of bringing peace and
stability between China and Tibet
princess when Chun is credited with
introducing Buddhism to Tibet as well as
all kinds of other practical wisdom from
China that had beneficial applications
to the Tibetans she also brought tea
with her from su chuan and the Tibetans
really took to it in a big way so much
so that Tibet became a whole new market
for China's tea producers and again I
mentioned because the Tibetans mixed the
tea with butter and spices
that demands on tea quality and
subtleness of flavor when it is
important the tea makers and suits
wanted you not just churn these cakes
and bricks out there's an old story who
knows how much of this is true that when
princess when Chung was getting
acclimated to the life in Lhasa
she would drink half a cup of the local
milk at breakfast and chase that down
with some tea to get rid of the flavor
then she tried mixing the milk with the
tea and added some clarified butter and
pine nuts and voila
zuo cha or the famous Tibetan butter tea
was invented and from this beginning
with the union of when Chung Gong chul -
one of the greatest kings in Tibetan
history songs town gumbo
not only did peace prevail between China
and Tibet the two civilizations joined
together in their common embrace of
Buddhism and the incorporation of tea
into their daily life and to facilitate
the transport of tea to Tibet and to
secure as many horses as possible
the Chamaco dal was created the ancient
tea horse rode in some ways this was
similar to the Silk Road far to the
north it was a trade route there were
two main ones
one led firm couldn't Ming to Tibet and
the other linked chengdu straight west
to tibet the couldn't ming route was
called the southern route and the
product was known as south route tea it
passed through the tea marketplace of
pulaar where it ended up being molded
into bricks and soul to the Tibetans to
the west as I said a couple of times
this tea was known as bian cha border
tea let me read from English explorer
William mark rocked he trekked from the
mouth of the Ganges to Tibet in 1812 he
had a fascinating observation about how
the local Tibetans had their tea quote
at breakfast each person drinks about
five to ten cups each containing about
one third of a pint and when the last
half is finished he mixes with the
remainder enough barley meal to bring it
to the consistency of paste this is done
to soak
and render edible a greasy accumulation
of froth which is blown aside when the
preceding cups are being drunk the
preparation of breakfast tea for say ten
persons involved boiling and ounce of
brick tea and a like quantity of soda in
a quart of water for an hour or so or
until the leaves of the tea have been
sufficiently steeped the liquid then is
strained and mixed with ten quarts of
boiling water in which an ounce and a
half of fossil salt has been dissolved
the hole is put into a narrow
cylindrical churn along with some butter
and is churned until it becomes a smooth
oily brown liquid somewhat like
chocolate in this form it is transferred
to a tea pot for immediate use at midday
meal those who can afford it take tea
again with Wheaton Cakes accompanied by
some paste of wheat flour butter and
sugar served hot unquote from Chengdu
and the towns outside of Chengdu like
Chile Yan wen chuan Liu Shan tea was
packed up and sent out west to Tibet and
northwest to Ching hai and Gansu once it
got as far as Gansu baby you were hooked
up with Silk Road and your stuff could
go anywhere in the known world where a
Muslim or Mongol trader would take it
now this brick tea although it was the
accepted standard in Tung days by the
Song Dynasty they're gonna be turning
their nose up at this stuff in fact
interestingly enough after the song the
only ones besides the Tibetans who were
sticking with brick tea were the
Russians at the exact same time that all
of this is going on with the tea horse
rode one of the great countries and
cultures of this world was belying up to
the bar sipping away at the delights and
pleasures of Chinese culture for Japan
India was far away but China was
conveniently located just across the
East China Sea that's where the Japanese
went to learn the customs of China see
the sides check out the Buddhist temples
and bring everything of use back to
Japan where it was reverse-engineered
modified to suit local tastes and
sensibilities and then these threads
were wool
moving into the ever emerging Japanese
fabric Japanese during the Tang Dynasty
came for the Buddhism but they got the
tea also and a few other things but
those two Buddhism and tea those two
valuable acquisitions came at the same
time and as I mentioned in the case of
Zen Buddhism they became one
let me introduce Saito he came to the
Tong dynasty from Japan in 8:03 8:04
during his time in China Saito soaked up
all that he could humanly take in this
is right at the early part of the Heian
era during the reign of emperor osaka
809 to 823 this was also the exact time
Charlemagne reigned and founded the
Carolingian Empire Saito became a monk
at the age of fourteen he was
outstanding in every way and in his
twenties retreated to Mount Hiei to
continue his Buddhist studies and
devotions he developed quite a following
there and those even vaguely familiar
with Japan will know Mount Hiei is
worthy in Ryoichi is located Saito had
received a directive from no less a
person than the Emperor of Japan who
told him to go travel around china and
bring back as many buddhist texts as
possible and in general do whatever he
could of value and while he's added
create friendly relations to he was
specifically tasked to study the tenth
eye sect of buddhism this is the one
that was purely homegrown in china
didn't get transplanted from india
you've all probably heard of the famous
Lotus Sutra
well that's associated with this
particular sect
Saito was asked to study their teachings
as much as possible
sideshow did as he was told and eight
months after arriving he headed back to
the Tsushima on a vessel that sailed
from Ning bought a sideshow brought some
tea seeds back with him and planted them
in Sakamoto village and ohmy Prefecture
and the slopes of Mount Hiei this
original tea garden is said to still
exist in Iike gommi it was right after
Saito
returned from China that he made tea for
Emperor saga and received Imperial
support in promoting tea drinking and
cultivation tea as it was in its current
unrefined brick form didn't particularly
go down too well with the Japanese
market or nobility it didn't catch fire
in Japan during this time period but
seeds were transported and trees take
time to grow later during the Kamakura
period eleven eighty five to thirteen
ninety two the timing and the technology
of tea making would be all ready to
conquer Japan we'll talk about a sigh
when we get to the song period T went
mass market during the Tang Dynasty this
penetration into the daily lives of most
all Chinese would be even greater during
the song but now in the eighth and ninth
centuries the word had gotten out and
everybody was drinking tea the
government again saw an opportunity and
created a whole arm of the
administration to deal with a tea tax
after the salt and steel tax tea brought
in the greatest amount of revenue for
the Tong Treasury the dud song Emperor
tried taxing tea first
unsuccessfully in 780 when Lu you
published the cha ching and tea sales
started to get real hot this initial tea
tax was repealed for a while due to the
politics of the time not being quite
right but as soon as the time was more
politically feasible the emperor put it
in place again in 793 tea cultivation
made a lot of progress during the Tang
Dynasty they figured out during the
tongue that tea trees and plants love
shade this tipped farmers off to plant
the tea bushes in the shadiest places
along the northern slopes of the hills
and mountains as more and more knowledge
about tea cultivation accumulated and
with domestic and overseas demand
growing like it was it put even further
incentive on farmers to leave Sichuan
and begin heading east along the Yangtze
River Valley to plant new tea gardens
there a lot of the most legendary tea
gardens out east began this way
the manufacturing and packaging process
for brick tea had been further advanced
during the tongue they came up with new
ways to mold these tea bricks and make
them easier to transport and stay fresh
along the way when these human mules of
the Tong era were hauling this brick tea
and their sturdy backs through the
dangerous mountain passes of the
Himalayas tea still had six centuries to
go yet before European people see it for
the first time the tea culture early on
was developed around the Imperial courts
with the emperor of course at the center
of it all and after new ways to drink it
and Chung on Law Yong Chi Fung or
Beijing were thought up this new way of
preparing the tea or serving the tea or
some new aspect of tea culture instantly
became fashionable so you can say during
the time tea really went up and down
market both the masses and the nobles
for the first time in history were
mutually enjoying the tea but tea is an
art as fashion in literature as a
philosophy all of this finally came
together in the tongue tea had evolved
into a powerful muse that inspired
untold numbers of masterpieces in art
and literature that have survived
throughout the ages also around this
time the early eight hundreds they
looked a man of letters named Liu tome
the Tang was still on a roll at this
time they still had several decades to
go yet before I'm Liu Shan goes and
wrecks the party I'm gonna talk about
lutein and lujah lujah who is the better
known of the two because of the cha
ching but lutein is a very close second
place with his great body of work and
tongue poetry in general and for his
famous tea poems chi waan shirt or seven
bowls of tea in particular mu tongs poem
is the definitive Tong dynasty tea poem
not only was it popular in China but in
Japan as well and there are a lot of tea
poems that came out of that golden era
Lu Tong was famous for many things his
poems his love of and expertise and tea
he was also know
for his wisdom as well as his
eccentricities mostly manifested in his
reclusive lifestyle altogether this made
Luton quite an endearing Tong dynasty
personage he lived this hermit-like
existence out on this beautiful mountain
and anon not far from shaolin temple he
came from money so he never had to worry
where his next bowl of congee was coming
from it was an idyllic scholarly life
he drank tea all day long and important
people often came to seek his counsel in
the next episode I'm going to discuss
the cha-ching the classic of tea by Liu
Yu Lewton was in his early 20s when that
book came out Liu Tong was totally
uncorrupted by money and politics
despite all the attempts by government
officials to recruit him he always said
that life wasn't for me he was an ardent
Taoist and followed the Dao in all ways
he was incorruptible but Liu Tom could
be tempted with the right tea he was
credited with saying quote I care not a
bit for immortal life but only for the
taste of tea unquote I told you the
tribute tea system really took off
during the tong emperors and like I said
last episode how much could the Emperor
drink so all these fantastic teas finest
in all the land a lot of product
trickled down to those who hung around
the Imperial Palace
Lu Tong new one such guy one day this
person someone who had access to the
Emperor himself came calling on Lu Tong
and brought him a very special gift that
had been handed to him before by the
Emperor himself so he was sort of
regifter this tea that had come to rekt
from the Emperor's own stash and this
official had now come down to the lake
ty area and was now giving this tea to
loot home later on in the series we'll
look at many of these tribute teas
there's so many of them but this one in
particular
young-shin xun cha this one was not easy
to get your hands on little E's not the
quality that went to the Imperial Palace
in China
this this one or purple bamboo tea was I
read the first true tribute to the
operation that produced this team began
in 770 the tongue died zhong emperor's
time young C&T came from mount Gujju
near the lake tai area the famous lake
in china surrounded by su Chou Hojo
Chang Qing Yi Sheng and Wu Shi young
Shen was the former name of what we know
today is a city of these Shing will talk
about their tea ware later on in the
series
this young CNT was one of the earliest
teas of the spring season to be picked
there was an old saying quote the
hundred plants dare not bloom until the
emperor had the first taste of young
chantey unquote the Emperor sent his own
people down to Chun soo to personally
oversee the harvesting the packaging and
to supervise the entire operation and
ensure the integrity of the product that
ultimately got transported up to Chung
on the shipment had to arrive and be
ready to drink before the changing
holiday in early April this wasn't just
some ordinary tribute tea when loot on
copped a gander at this generous gift of
young Shen suzune sha he really was
beholding the holy grail for any char n
like himself and not just the tea the
water too that flowed from nearby jinsha
spring that too had to accompany the tea
leaves in order to extract the optimum
tea drinking experience the best in
purest flavor the finest aroma the young
Shin to swoon cha had to be drunk with
Jing Chou spring water I'm not kidding
you they filled containers with water
from the chena sha spring and
transported it up to Chung on 62.4
pounds per cubic foot but if you lived
in the area of a whole show where Yi
Shing you can have it every day you can
buy this tea today
a lot of tea shops growth
brick-and-mortar and online sell it I
don't know about the gene sha water
though the way you can buy it today
doesn't look at all like it did during
the time
as we'll see over the next episodes he
never stopped evolving it loot homes
time in the tongue this T came in small
convenient cakes it wasn't found in its
present loosely form until the Ming
Dynasty
so Lou Tong wrote this poem it was
written in the form of a letter of
appreciation to his friend up at the
palace who had been so kind as to give
him a gift fit for an emperor I'm sure
Luke Tong appreciated it a lot more than
his majesty did so he wrote this poem
and I'll just read the most famous part
where he speaks about the seven bowls of
tea He pours for himself after he has
shut himself in and was all alone in his
tea version of his smoking spot then he
enjoyed this tea I'll read both the
English translation and what loot Hong
actually wrote the first bowl moistens
my lips and throat
eewan whole wet room the second bowl
breaks my loneliness Irwin Paul GU Mun
the third bowl searches my barren
entrails but to find therein some 5000
Scrolls San Juan soku Chung way you'll
win su mooch engine the fourth bowl
raises a slight perspiration and all
life's inequities pass out through my
pores Suwon watching hon ping Xiang
pooping shirt jeans young Malcolm's son
the fifth ball purifies my flesh and
bones woman Jeju Ching the sixth ball
calls me to the Immortals
liwin Poong Shen Ling the seventh ball
could not be drunk only the breath of
the cool wind raises in my sleeves chi
waan true buddhaya way Jinyoung Yeshe
Shi Jing Fung Xiang
where is pond lie island neutrons ax
wishes to ride on this sweet breeze and
go back pollution sigh ha Choo neutrons
a Chung searching Fung new way to loot
on everyone
yeah tea had come a long way since the
Bronze Age but it still had plenty more
refinement and improvement to go yet by
Luke tomes time and the Tong dynasty he
took on a whole new importance tea had
reached the point in scale and economics
where most everyone could afford it not
everyone got to enjoy the same quality
or drink from the same tea ware but
that's the same wherever you go quality
aside tea had become something that
everyone throughout society began to
demand people will say the same or
similar things about their coffee coffee
and tea both offer great pleasures
inspiration and for many an extra stage
of rocket fuel to power them through the
day or through a meeting everyone had
access to tea it was more dear to some
than to others but it was now a part of
daily life in China and as I mentioned
at the outset the border people
incorporated tea into their daily life -
and if you had tea no matter how poor
you were you had to have some sort of
tea set to make it pour it and drink it
well you just need a charcoal stove some
sort of pot in two cups but this would
hardly suffice if you were someone who
drank tea is more than just a thirst
quencher you needed some tea specific
utensils to do it all up right and
that's how the whole tea ware industry
was created in China and out of this
necessity of course came great
innovations that inspired other
porcelain treasures during the Tang
Dynasty there was a type of porcelain
ware known as you wear yet she
technically it was a stone where it came
from good Jo hence its name yeah Jo
would be near present-day Xiao Jing just
a little east of Hangzhou the earliest
days of you where go back to the later
Han the quality and design of the
ceramics coming out of those kilns
reached their height during the time
prior to the Tong your ware had quite a
following regionally but in the Tong it
became a national brand um where was the
most common tea ware and in China back
then it's recognizable by its yellowish
or bluish green color there was even a
color of your ware reserved for the
Emperor called Mesa which translates to
a secret color
the recipe for this glaze was a state
secret nothing was more precious than
Jade back then so this yeah we're and
it's celadon glaze with its Jade look to
it was most prized for drinking tea you
where was the old established China
where of the masses who could afford to
use China where especially by the 9th
century this was already not a small
number but a new contender emerged
during the tong that challenged you have
where for prestige in the marketplace
and in the minds of wine and tea
connoisseurs this was called shing where
the characteristic thing about shing
where was its whiteness all white very
delicate looking the tea looks great in
the cup and you can get a better
appreciation of the teas color in shing
where in choosing the color of the tea
where it was always an important
consideration that the cup provided aid
pleasing complement to the color of the
tea were drinking there are a lot of
differences in a teas color from brewed
brew and leaf to leaf and sheen we're
really brought it out this kind of
porcelain was also called white where
the sheen where was an innovation of the
North around hood bay in the heartland
where Chinese civilization began yeah
where came from the south south of the
answer when Western people figure out
what tea is in the 17th century it's
also going to spawn a whole global
industry of porcelain ware I know this
sounds incredible to believe but
Europeans didn't figure out how to make
a porcelain until the 18th century
Johann Friedrich Berger his shop was in
Meissen not far from Dresden Bertie ger
is quite an interesting chap and was
featured in the excellent history of
alchemy podcast
Travis Dow does that one with Pete
Coleman that's the sisters show to the
Bohemian podcast
Travis Dao and Pete Coleman if you like
history podcasts I've recommended them
before Berger figured out how to do it
up until his time when he figured it out
in 1705 porcelain was right up there
with silver and gold as far as precious
objects went it was called white gold so
in the time of Lu Yu and Liu Tong the
porcelain
secret was still safe for another nine
centuries and trust me when Berta gur
discovered how to make porcelain he too
kept it under wraps passionately so Lu
Yu is at stage left right now looking at
his watch this far as T is concerned
he's he's really the big star of the
Tong dynasty and we've talked about
everything except him so next episode
we're going to look at his life his
great work the cha-ching the classic of
T and the legacy he would have all the
way into our present-day haven't walked
into a single tea shop or tea persons
home or office who didn't have at least
a small Lu Yu figurine on the shelf so
that's four part three today at the
Royal China history podcast we looked at
all kinds of different aspects about tea
in the opening of the Grand Canal and
other transport links caused a massive
network of trade to develop with this
tea and tea culture was able to make its
way from the southwest and to the east
and to the north much more easily the
awareness of tea went in all directions
we saw princess when Chong and how this
marriage Alliance our uncle the tides
own Emperor made with the king of Tibet
brought tea Buddhism and Chinese culture
to that part of Asia and as a direct
result of this interaction the chamaco
dal the ancient tea horse route came
into being and countless tons of brick
tea was carried through these dangerous
mountain passes by mules and human mules
this was a rough trade and they probably
didn't have a union back then this tea
brought to Tibet and other places gave
him nice boost to the nutritional
well-being of the Zhang chung and other
peoples of the Himalayas and we close
with lute home one of the great
characters from the Tong dynasty and his
poem chi waan shared seven bowls of tea
even though the Tong was a brick tea
world they still made some good stuff in
this episode Imperial tribute teas were
also mentioned and from the introduction
of lute home you can see how special and
refine these teas were and still are go
to any online tea vendors so
China loose-leaf tea these same tribute
tees are still around and you could buy
them and on a cup per cup basis very
affordable to all so you can see from Lu
tongs poem what tea started to mean to
some people for the first time not just
a medicine anymore
in the Tong it became what we know today
something to savor something to bring
calm reflection focus and inspiration a
beverage that creates a bond between
humans and nature I hope by the time the
curtain falls on the last episode that
almost everything you need to know about
tea has been mentioned we'll look at Lu
you next time and then we'll take the
history of tea clear through to the song
un Ming and finish off in the Ching
throughout the Tong the periods of
disunity the gran and into the Ming all
those areas from Tibet Ching hai Xin
John Central Asia and into Mongolia
people immediately took to tea the
dating period was very quick and went
straight to marriage
wherever tea was be held and tasted it
was always in these lands border in
China love at first sight well into the
Ming and Qing dynasties the same thing
is going to happen only this time it's
not just the border regions surrounding
China it's the whole rest of the world
and the global tea mania will be no less
great than it was in Lhasa going back to
princess wen Zhong's time and part of
this great story is that by the 17th and
18th centuries humankind had developed
much better modes of transport and
logistics than the chemical dump so I
leave you with that to mull over in
anticipation of episodes yet to come
this is Laszlo Montgomery signing off
once again from pretty much the farthest
edge possible of LA County I invite you
to consider joining me next time for
another exciting episode of the China
history podcast